# Bipolar cells

## Figure 2A

This subfigure displays a dot plot of canonical marker genes for bipolar cell types. The following files are used in this subfigure:

- snRNA_BC.h5ad: This is the input file for bipolar cells from the snRNA-seq datasets. To download the file, please run the following command:

```
wget -O snRNA_BC.h5ad https://bcm.box.com/shared/static/sxoolz2wwmkgdezhn2myz79dfsgdb11j.h5ad
```

- Figure2A.sh: This running script executes the utility scrnah5ad2seuratdotplot to generate a dot plot for biplor cell types. The utility can be found in the utility directory at [scrnah5ad2seuratdotplot](../../utility/scrnah5ad2seuratdotplot).
  - Figure2A_group.txt: This is used to reorder the biplor cell types in the resulting dot plot.
  - Figure2A_marker.txt: This lists the canonical marker genes for the dot plot.

- Figure2A.pdf: This resulting PDF file is a dot plot for bipolar cells and has been edited using Illustrator for text.

## Figure 2B

This subfigure illustrates the data integration and cell type annotation for bipolar cells. The following files are used in the figure:

- snRNA_BC_scVI.h5ad: This file is integrated file for bipolar cells using scVI. The steps to generate this integration are similar to those in Figure 1D using the scrnah5adfiles2scviwkfl utility. To download this .h5ad file, please run the following command:

```
wget -O snRNA_BC_scVI.h5ad https://bcm.box.com/shared/static/cdgp1yyzd1gq1unk7zfqztuca9vyoolo.h5ad
```

- scrnah5adumapby.sh: This utility is specifically used to plot UMAP for bipolar cell types. It can be found in the utility directory at [scrnah5adumapby](../../utility/scrnah5adumapby).

- Figure2B.sh: This running script executes scrnah5adumapby.sh to generate the UMAP for bipolar cell types.

- Figure2B.png: This resulting PNG file is the UMAP for bipolar cell types.

## Figure 2C

This subfigure is related to the cross-species analysis for bipolar cells across humans, mice, and macaques using [SATURN](https://github.com/snap-stanford/SATURN). The following files are used in the figure:

- BC_human.h5ad, BC_mouse.h5ad, BC_macaque.h5ad: These three files serve as input for the cross-species analysis. To download these files, please run the following commands:

```
wget -O BC_human.h5ad https://bcm.box.com/shared/static/ozyla9gy5eaeopotcdufg8aj2mou6xln.h5ad
wget -O BC_mouse.h5ad https://bcm.box.com/shared/static/zbhn2qct3ocow784fjhhpr2oqo01njb8.h5ad
wget -O BC_macaque.h5ad https://bcm.box.com/shared/static/vgp155ae6hvyheg6qn89cp577k6cpvic.h5ad
```

- Protein embeddings for humans, mice, and macaques: Protein embeddings (the ESM2 version) were downloaded from the SATURN repository at [http://snap.stanford.edu/saturn/data/protein_embeddings.tar.gz](http://snap.stanford.edu/saturn/data/protein_embeddings.tar.gz).

- Installing dependencies to run SATURN via Conda:

We recommand installing the required dependencies for SATURN within a Conda environment. Below are example commands to create a Conda environment to run SATURN utilities.

```
mamba create -y -n u_saturn scanpy=1.9.1 anndata=0.8 matplotlib=3.6 pandas=1.5 biopython fair-esm igraph ipdb ipython louvain matplotlib notebook numpy plotly scikit-learn-intelex scikit-misc typed-argument-parser faiss-gpu bioconductor-deseq2 r-seurat bioconductor-summarizedexperiment r-ggplot2 bioconductor-rhdf5 r-remotes
mamba install -y -n u_saturn pytorch torchvision torchaudio pytorch-cuda -c pytorch -c nvidia
mamba install -y -n u_saturn scvi-tools leidenalg blas=*=openblas
pip install ensembl-rest record-keeper
```

- Figure2C.sh: This running script executes the saturncrossspecieswkfl workflow for cross-species analysis. The workflow and its dependencies can be found in the utility directory at [saturncrossspecieswkfl](../../utility/saturncrossspecieswkfl). The steps of the workflow are summarized as follows: 

  - scrnah5adduplicateobs: Used to duplicate existing metadata names to new names. This is a helper script to prepare SATURN metadata columns for cross-species analysis.
  - scrnah5adsubsetsamplingbykey.sh: Used to down-sampling cells by species per sample.
  - scrnah5adsubsetbyvaluecounts.sh: Used to filter out low-count samples.
  - saturntraincrossspecies: This is the main utility to perform cross-species analysis using SATURN. The SATURN script "train-saturn.py" is executed in this utility.
  - saturntrainh5ad2umap: Used to generate UMAP using the calculated low-dimenstional representations by SATURN.
  - saturnh5adumap2seuratdimplotsplitby: Used to plot a UMAP using Seurat functions for more sophisticated configurations compared to Scanpy.
  - saturnh5adumap2seuratclustree: Used to build and plot a phylogenetic tree using SATURN low-embedding for cross-species analysis.
  - scrnah5adsplitby.sh: Used to split the resulting Scanpy object file into separate species.
  - saturnh5adlatent2cntclassifier: Used to develop conventional classifiers using SATURN latent representations. The "train" subcommand is implemented for training a classifier on mice or macaques, and the "predict" subcommand is used to predict human types using the classifier.
  - rtable2sankeydiagram: Used to plot a Sankey diagram from a contingency table.
  - html2png: Used to convert an HTML file to a high-resolution PNG file.

- Figure2C.pdf: This resulting PDF file is a co-embedding of bipolar cells across humans, mice, and macaques.

