# Overview of the single cell atlas of the human retina

## Figure 1A

This workflow was generated using BioRender software.

## Figure 1B

This subfigure is designed to display a pie chart representing the number of cells in the datasets. The following files were used.

- Figure1B.txt: Contains the curated number of cells for datasets.
- rplotpiechart.sh: This utility is used to plot the pie chart and can be found in the utility directory at [rplotpiechart](../../utility/rplotpiechart).
- Figure1B.sh: This running script is used to execute the utility rplotpiechart.sh in order to generate the pie chart with parameters.

The resulting figure image was edited using Illustrator for text labels.

## Figure 1C

This subfigure displays the benchmark study of the five data integration methods. The scripts are accessible at https://github.com/theislab/HRCA-reproducibility.

## Figure 1D

This subfigure shows the UMAP of snRNA-seq data integration using scVI. The following files are used to generate this figure:

- snRNA.h5ad: This is the input files for data integration. It contains the raw count matrix for snRNA-seq datasets with metadata. To download the file, please use the following command.

```
wget -O snRNA.h5ad https://bcm.box.com/shared/static/7gy1sqaq9xl3dy8168ovqw71i2fvxzjm.h5ad
```

- Installing scVI via Conda:

We recommand installing scVI within a Conda environment. Below are example commands to create a Conda environment for scVI.

```
mamba create -y -n u_scvi anndata scanpy matplotlib scvi-tools pandas python=3.10 pytorch-gpu parallel
mamba install -y -n u_scvi -c pytorch -c nvidia pytorch pytorch-gpu pytorch-cuda=11.7 leidenalg blas=*=openblas bash python=3.10
```

- scrnah5adfiles2scviwkfl: This workflow is used for data integration using scVI and can be found in the utility directory at [scrnah5adfiles2scviwkfl](../../utility/scrnah5adfiles2scviwkfl). The dependent steps can be also found in the utility directory, including:

  - scrnah5adsubsetbyvaluecounts.sh: Used to filter out low-count samples.
  - scrnascvih5ad.sh: Used to perform the integration using scVI.
  - scrnascanpycombinerawcountsscvi.sh: Used to create a clean count matrix with UMAP and low-dimenstional embeddings produced by scVI.
  - scrnah5ad2normscale.sh: Used to generate normalized counts from raw counts.
  - scrnah5adumapby.sh: Used to generate UMAP plots for various metadata variables.
  - mergeimg2htmlbyjinja: Used to create a combined HTML file of UMAP images.

- Figure1D.sh: This running script executes scrnah5adfiles2scviwkfl on the input file with specific parameters.
  - Figure1D_config.yaml: This is the configuration YAML file for the workflow with the configured parameters.

- Figure1D_snRNA.html: This is the resulting HTML file containing UMAP images. For example, Figure1D_snRNA_majorclass.png displays a UMAP visualization of snRNA-seq cells, with colors representing major classes.

  - To download this HTML file, please use the following command:

  ```
  wget -O Figure1D_snRNA.html https://bcm.box.com/shared/static/asnw2s4um84o1m5y7brjo4iauwfx05g9.html
  ```

  - This HTML can be also accessible at https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://bcm.box.com/shared/static/asnw2s4um84o1m5y7brjo4iauwfx05g9.html


